---
title: "6 Tips for Finding Answers to Even the Most Complex Coding Questions"
author: Kelly MacLeod
handle: @ksmacleod99
submit_date: 09/16/2019
description: "Early on in your coding career - whether you're just exploring if development is for you, just starting out in your first school, or just beginning your first job - learning how to ask a question correctly will be paramount to your success. The ability to find solutions and troubleshoot as you grow in your development career is key, as programming is only getting more complex. Naturally, the questions you'll need answered will follow suit. Getting comfortable with the skill of finding the best way to present a question will prove to be invaluable as your grow and learn how to code. In this post, Kelly MacLeod shares 5 tips for the best way to dive in and start asking educated and informed questions, so you can discover the most useful and efficient answers."
level: beginner
tags:
    - newbies
    - learning
    - troubleshooting
--- 
# How To Ask Good Questions
I am not even going to try to misrepresent myself - I am a _terrible_ student. I am super impatient, and I expect things to _just work_ like the God-fearing American-raised-on-Hot-Pockets I am.

I also have a habit, a very good habit, to ask for help when I need it. While not something you'll likely discover on a resume, this skill is key from day 1 of your development career through day X. 

However, coupling my impatience with my tendency to ask for help, I sometimes end up with the perfect storm: I will ask questions without fully understanding my problem or doing my own exploration and research first. I will rush to the Operation Code Slack community with a question before Googling my issue. 

Unlike school, many employers understand that you can't possibly have all the answers and that you will have to research problems to find the most cost-effective and efficient solutions. Being able to research the solution to your problem is a valuable skill in programming. Being able to ask the right question is the crux of that research.

## What makes a good question? 
There are a couple things that **you**, the aspiring developer, need to do before you go slinging questions around. It may seem counter-intuitive at first, but better questions get better answers. Check out the tips below, and tell us about any of your own in the comments!

### Tip #1: Read the Docs
I love reading... fiction. Occasionally I'll dig into non-fiction book, but it completely depends on the subject. Documentation? Not for me. That's about as dry as reading a computer manual!

All jokes aside, it is important for developers to read documentation. That's where you'll find the instructions. Usually, the answer is in the documentation. I say "usually", because not all documentation is created equal. The [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/) and [Wordpress Codex](https://codex.wordpress.org/Know_Your_Sources) are examples of great documentation. Generally, you will find the documentation for major frameworks are well-written. On the other hand, documentation for NPM packages are a bit of a crap shoot. 

*Example of a good question: "Hey I read the docs regarding {this concept}. Is it the right tool to {solve this problem}?"*

### Tip #2: Google The Question
One lesson you'll learn very quickly as you gain more and more experience as a developer is that other developers have encountered 95% of the issues you encounter. These issues are reasonably documented on StackOverflow, Github, and other Q&A-type sites. More often than not you'll have to refactor code and update it to current syntax. (Hint - Check the date on any StackOverflow thread - 2014 was a long time ago in tech.)

### Tip #3: Learn To Love The Console
The console in your browser or your terminal window can give you a ton of information to pinpoint your problem, including line numbers and error descriptions.

*Example: I am getting a 'variable is undefined' error on line 35, but I declared that variable up on line 4. Why am I seeing this error?*

### Tip #4: Explain The Problem 
Be brief, but also be thorough (yes I know). Example:

*I am trying to build {purpose of app}, and I am having trouble {with this part}. I have read a SA question that is similar* (share the link), *but it is still not {doing this step}. How can I get it to {do the thing}? Here is a snippet of code I have created so far.*

### Tip #5: Show Your Code!
Incredibly talented and experienced developers across the globe and at Operation Code are ready and willing to lend you a hand. However, they can best support you by taking a look at what you've built so far. Upload your code to Github, use CodePen, JSBin, or other code-sharing option to show your code. It's easier to debug that way, and you might wind up with a few additional tips along the way!

### Tip #6: Be Upfront
If you are stuck in the specific kind of pickle where you literally do not know what to Google, that's okay! Frame that up first and foremost, so that the person helping you knows that there may be a little bit of a time commitment to help you understand your problem and get you Googling your way to solutions going forward.

For additoinal reading on the best way to ask questions when troubleshooting, check out StackOverflow's guide [here](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask). They go into the specifics of how to post a good question on their site specifically. Otherwise, come check us out on the Operation Code Slack channel. We're always up for the challenge!
