---
title: "How To Ask Good Questions"
author: Kelly MacLeod
handle: @ksmacleod99
submit_date: 09/04/2019
description: "How To Ask Good Questions"
level: beginner
tags:
    - newbies
    - learning
    - troubleshooting
--- 
# How To Ask Good Questions
I am not even going to try to misrepresent myself - I am a _terrible_ student. I am super impatient and I expect things to _just work_ like the God-fearing American raised on Hot Pockets I am.

I also have a habit - a very good habit, I think - to ask for help when I need it. 

The problem both of these traits create is that I will ask questions without fully understating my problem, or doing my own research first. I will rush to the Operation Code Slack community with a question first before Googling my issue. 

Unlike school, a lot of employers understand that you can't possibly have all the answers, and that you will have to research problems and solutions. Tech is no different. Being able to research the solution to your problem is a valuable skill in programming. Being able to ask a good question is also a valuable skill.

## What makes a good question? 
There are a couple things that **you** the aspiring developer need to do before you go slinging questions around. It may seem counter-intuitive at first, but better questions get better answers. 

### Read the Docs
I love reading... fiction. Occasionally non-fiction, depending on the subject. Documentation? Nah. That's about as dry as reading a computer manual! 

Jokes aside, it is important for developers to read documentation; the docs are the instructions. Usually, the answer is in there. I say 'usually' because not all documentation is created equal. The MDN and Wordpress Codex are examples of great documentation, and the docs for major frameworks are usually well-written. Documentation for NPM packages are a bit of a crap shoot. 

*Example of a good question: "Hey I read the docs regarding {this concept}. Is it the right tool to {solve this problem}?"*

### Google The Question
Other developers have encountered 95% of the issues I encounter. These issues are reasonably documented on StackOverflow, Github, and other Q&A-type sites. More often than not you'll have to refactor code to update it to current syntax (check the date on that StackOverflow thread - 2014 was a long time ago in tech), or you might have to tweak some of the answers to fit your use case. 

### Explain The Problem 
Be brief, but also be thorough (yes I know). Example:

*I am trying to build {purpose of app} and I am having trouble {with this part}. I have read a SA question that is similar* (share the link), *but it is still not {doing this step}. How can I get it to {do the thing}?*

### Learn To Love The Console
The console in your browser or your terminal window can give you a ton of information to pinpoint your problem, including what the problem actually is and line numbers.

*Example: I am getting a 'variable is undefined' error on line 35, but I declared that variable up on line 4. Why am I seeing this error?*

### Show Your Code!
There are incredibly talented developers across the globe and at Operation Code. However they cannot divine what your code looks like. Upload your code to Github, use CodePen, JSBin, or other code-sharing option to show your code. It's easier to debug that way.

### Be Upfront
If you are stuck in the specific kind of pickle where you literally do not know what to Google, that's ok! However that needs to be one of the first things you mention, so that the person helping you knows that there may be a little bit of a time commitment to help you understand your problem and get you Googling.

StackOverflow also has a much better guide to asking good questions [here](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask).
