---
title: "Why Do I Need To Learn Git?"
author: Kelly MacLeod
handle: @ksmacleod99
submit_date: 09/04/2019
description: "An anaology and an argument for helping you convince yourself to learn Git. Go you!"
level: beginner
tags:
    - newbies
    - git
--- 

In the tech world, analogies can aid in understanding the complexities at hand, and we all know the complexities come fast and frequently. We'll start with an analogy in this case to demonstrate the importance of learning Git. Imagine you're in the kitchen getting ready to try out a new recipe. You're out of one ingredient, and you're weighing the pros and cons of going to the store or substituting another ingredient. You aim for the latter and end up ruining the dish. With Git, you can easily revert and roll back to the spot before you took a wrong turn with the substitute, essentially undoing and starting from the error, not from the very beginning. That seems like reason enough to me to jump in feet first and get a handle on Git, but for those of you not quite sold, soldier on!

# Why do I need to learn git?
“Why do I need to learn Git on top of everything else I have to learn?” was a question I once (maybe twice) asked in absolute frustration when I first started coding. I already felt like I was drinking through a fire hose between trying to learn JavaScript, React, and - oh I couldn’t decide what I should learn - PHPRubySQLandPython. 

(Pro tip: Pick. One. Stick to it.)

Learning how to code, especially when you are teaching yourself is inherently frustrating. And that’s ok! It’s hard! You are pretty boss for learning! However, if you're going to be a full-fledged developer (and I think you will be), you need to learn Git. It is a basic tool in the developer toolbox; and, therefore it behooves you to learn it. 

### What is Git?  
[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is a distributed source control system that doesn't require additional third-party software or add-ons to work, is free to use, and open source. It helps programming teams manage the contributions of their members on small and large-scale projects and makes open source projects possible.  Git is a ubiquitous tool to the programming and development world. Almost all development teams use Git, and individual freelancers would benefit from being familiar with a basic Git workflow as well.  

Files that the teams work on are stored in a Git directory, or repository (colloquially known as a “repo”).  These repositories could be locally managed on a company server or stored on a cloud repo-hosting service, like Github. 

A user will “check out” the repo to a local working directory that is stored on their machine. From their machine, they work on the project. Git stores information on the changes made, by whom, and when, which are added to a commit. 

When the user creates a commit, Git takes a snapshot of the code and metadata as it is in that moment and pushes it to the repo. 

### Why is it important to learn? 
Git is used in almost every developer/programmer shop. In fact, teams who do not use Git are usually considered odd. Git also allows for projects to be open source so that anyone can contribute changes to the project.

Managing these changes by different people becomes very important when things begin to break. In fact, Git is very helpful keeping things from breaking. 

Bottom line: learning Git is a basic tool that you will be expected to know to some degree when you enter a programming career. It’s on the same level as knowing how to operate your email.

### Into the Weeds: Git CLI vs. a Git GUI
There are several GUI (graphical user interface) options for using Git. The GUIs are attractive options for folks who are just starting out because they look just like other programs they are used to using.

Yes, the terminal can be frightening at first. However, it is important to understand the Git CLI (command line interface). 

Using Git CLI will get you comfortable with the terminal and operating programs with typed commands. Additionally, as you get used to Git commands and workflows, typing the commands actually becomes faster than using your mouse to navigate around a screen! 

Also, the GUIs can be very limiting. Outside of the normal workflow (getting, creating, and updating projects) other Git tools such as `rebase`, `diff`, and `blame` become more difficult and more time consuming to actually execute. 

Finally, the messages that Git will give you in the terminal window are more useful than what you will see in a GUI. Whether or not you use the GUI or a CLI you need to be familiar enough with Git to understand the messages you are seeing and how to respond to them.

Personally, I had learned a few basic Git commands, but was very uncomfortable in terminal. When I learned the basic Git workflow through a GUI and my skills advanced. I simply needed to do more with source control, and the CLI became my tool of choice. Also, I realized quickly that typing is a lot faster than using my mouse to open the GUI window, find, and click the button.

Many IDEs (integrated development environments) come with support for Git, or add-ons that can be installed so that you don't have to switch between windows. This is peak developer optimization! 

Yes, Git is really that important. Yes, learning the commands to use in the terminal is a little scary if you are first starting out. (Hint: You won’t crash your computer so long as you pay attention to the documentation). However it is worthwhile to learn and easy to incorporate into your own personal project workflow.  

To get you started, check out Github's [Resources to Learn Git](https://try.github.io/).
